so here we are we're trying to determine
the number and types of solutions to a
quadratic equation before we actually
crunch the numbers and in order to do
that what we want to go through is we
want to check the discriminant yes I'll
talk about the discriminant in a minute
but what I do have is I have the
quadratic formula I've rewritten it in a
form that's going to help us determine
the number and types of solutions I
broke that fraction up into two they
have the same denominator so I would be
able to add their fractions so it is
conceivable that I would be able to
rewrite it like this the discriminant is
part of the quadratic formula it's the
part under the root okay so let's talk
about that part under the root three
things can happen it can be bigger than
zero it can be smaller than zero or it
can be equal to zero okay let's go
through and take a look at these things
if the discriminant b squared minus 4ac
is bigger than zero let's look at that
root can you take us square root of a
real positive number yes you can and
when you do you get a real positive
number so here we're gonna get two real
solutions one with this plus that real
number and this minus that real number
because we're taking the square root of
a positive number yeah so this is gonna
get you two real solutions
okay the second part in our trifecta
yeah um
the trilogy if you will what happens if
your discriminant is smaller than 0 when
I go and I plug this up in here right
this number is going to be negative what
happens when you take the square root of
a negative number
yeah you get an imaginary number okay so
it's this plus an imaginary part and
this plus a real part and we know if
complex numbers have real parts and
imaginary parts so here you're gonna get
two non real solutions and when I say
not real
I mean complex with an imaginary part
because some real numbers all real
numbers are complex numbers just
excluding the imaginary part make it
impurity real so let's look at our third
case down here what if the discriminate
0 all right this is the discriminant if
the discriminant is 0 can you take the
square root of 0 yeah what is it
0 what's going to happen to this entire
term gone and then what are you left
with only one real number see it's not
gonna have the plus and the minus from
it it's going to be one real number so
then yeah this is one real solution
all right so these are the three cases
of our discriminant why don't we go
through and do a couple of examples with
those I'm up here to my first example
until you're professional I strongly
encourage that you label a is to be is
minus 3 and C is minus 1 fun so I'm
gonna take him and I'm gonna plug it
here no I'm gonna plug it here because
it's our goal in our intentions to
determine the number and type of
solutions without solving the equation
ok sure
so then this is gonna be B squared minus
4 h c finish it um this is 9 plus 8
great that Nets you 17
ok now is that bigger than 0 smaller
than 0 or is it 0 that's bigger than 0
so then in conclusion you can state by
use of the discriminant that this is two
real solutions
okay Wow now I'm down here to my second
example here I see my a is one my B is 2
and my C is 9 fine
so I need to go through and I need to
plug those into the discriminant so
that's gonna give me B squared minus 4
hey C okay so I'm looking at four - oh
wait
36 and that's gonna net you a - 32 yes
is that bigger than 0 smaller than 0 or
is it 0 that's smaller than 0 hence
giving you two non real solution